.TH fsq-install 1 "2013-04-02" "Axial" "Axial System Commands Manual"
.SH NAME
fsq\-install \- install
.BR fsq (7)
queues in the file\-system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "fsq install"
.BR "" "[ " flags " ]"
.IR " queue " [ " queue" " [...]]]"
.br
.B "fsq install"
.BR "" "[ " "\-h" "|" "\-\-help " "]"
.BR "" "[ " "\-v" "|" "\-\-verbose " "]"
.br
.BR "            " "[ " "\-f" | "\-\-force" " ]"
.BR "" "[ " "\-d" | "\-\-down" " ]"
.br
.BR "            " "[ " "\-t" | "\-\-triggered" " ]"
.BR "" "[ " "\-i "| "\-\-ignore\-exists" " ]"
.br
.BR "            " "[ " "\-o "owner| "\-\-owner" "=user|uid ]"
.br
.BR "            " "[ " "\-g "group| "\-\-group" "=group|gid ]"
.br
.BR "            " "[ " "\-m "mode| "\-\-mode" "=int ]"
.br
.BR "            " "[ " "\-a "host| "\-\-add\-host" "=host ]"
.br
.IR "            queue " [ " queue" " [...]]]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fsq\-install (1)
program uses the
.BR fsq (7) " install"
function to install one or more
.I queue
arguments to
.IR "FSQ_ROOT" .
Each installed
.I queue
contains the directories
.IR "FSQ_TMP" ", " "FSQ_QUEUE" ", " "FSQ_DONE" ", and " "FSQ_FAIL" ,
used by the
.BR fsq (7) " " "functions " enqueue " and " scan
for queueing and processing work.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
.br
Help.  Print usage to stdout and exit 0.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
.br
Verbose.  Print additional diagnostic information to stderr.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
.br
Force.  Forcably remove and re-install
.I queue
if it already exists in
.IR "FSQ_ROOT" .
.sp
If one or more
.B \-a
options are provided,
.B \-t
will additionall forcably remove and re-install
.I host
if it already exists in
.IR "FSQ_HOSTS" .
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-down
.br
Down.  Install
.I queue
with an
.I "FSQ_DOWN"
file, to prevent the queue from being scanned.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-triggered
.br
Triggered.  Install
.I queue
with an
.I "FSQ_TRIGGER"
.BR fifo (7),
for use with the
.BR trigger\-listen (1)
program and the
.BR fsq "(7) " "trigger_pull" " function."
.sp
If one or more
.B \-a
options are provided,
.B \-t
will additionally install a
.I "FSQ_HOST_TRIGGER"
.BR fifo (7)
as well.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-ignore\-exists
Ignore Exists.  If
.I queue
exists, do not install and exit success. When multiple
.I queue
arguments are provided, do not install and continue to next
.IR queue .
.sp
If one or more
.B \-a
options are provided and
.IR host (s),
exist
.B \-i
will not install
.IR host (s)
and exit success.
.TP
.BR \-o user", " \-\-owner=user
.br
Owner.  Install
.I queue
and all files and sub\-directories with user\-owner
.IR user .
Accepts either user name or id; default:
.BR geteuid (2).
.TP
.BR \-g group", " \-\-group=group
.br
Group.  Install
.I queue
and all files and sub\-directories with group\-owner
.IR group .
Accepts either group name or id; default:
.BR getegid (2).
.TP
.BR \-m mode", " \-\-mode=mode
.br
Mode.  Install
.I queue
and all files and sub\-directories with mode
.IR mode ". " mode
is expected to be an octal file\-system mode; default:
.IR 02775 .
.TP
.BR \-a host", " \-\-add\-host=host
Add Host.  Install
.IR host " to the " hosts " queue."
Multple
.I \-\-add\-host
arguments may be passed to specify multiple
.IR host s.

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The
.B fsq\-install
program exits 0 for success, 100 for bad usage, and 111 for expected error
cases.  All other exit statuses imply that something beyond the imagination of
the programmer has occured.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR trigger\-listen "(1), " fsq (7)
