.TH fsq\-down\-host 1 "2013-05-14" "Axial" "Axial System Commands Manual"
.SH NAME
fsq\-down\-host \- a program for turning off
.BR fsq (7)
host\-queues
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "fsq down\-host"
.BR "" "[ " flags " ]"
.IR host " " queue " [ " queue " [...]]]"
.br
.B "fsq down\-host"
.BR "" "[ " "\-h" "|" "\-\-help " "]"
.BR "" "[ " "\-v" "|" "\-\-verbose " "]"
.br
.BR "         " "[ " "\-u "user| "\-\-user" "=user ]"
.br
.BR "         " "[ " "\-g "group| "\-\-group" "=group ]"
.br
.BR "         " "[ " "\-m " mode| "\-\-mode" "=mode ]"
.br
.IR "" "         " host " " queue " [ " queue " [...]]]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fsq\-down\-host (1)
uses the
.BR fsq (7)
.B "down_host"
function to turn off
.I host
in
.IR queue s
.BR fsq (7) " FSQ_HOSTS"
directory by adding a file named
.BR "FSQ_DOWN" " (default: down)."
.SH OPTIONS
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
.br
Help.  Print usage to stdout and exit 0.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
.br
Verbose.  Print additional diagnostic information to stderr.
.TP
.BR \-o user", " \-\-owner=user
.br
Owner.  Install
.BR "FSQ_DOWN"
file with user\-owner
.IR user .
Accepts either user name or id; default:
.BR geteuid (2).
.TP
.BR \-g group", " \-\-group=group
.br
Group.  Install
.BR "FSQ_DOWN"
with group\-owner
.IR group .
Accepts either group name or id; default:
.BR getegid (2).
.TP
.BR \-m mode", " \-\-mode=mode
.br
Mode.  Install
.BR "FSQ_DOWN"
with mode
.IR mode ". " mode
is expected to be an octal file\-system mode; default:
.IR 00775 .
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The
.B fsq\-down\-host
program exits 0 for success, 100 for bad usage, and 111 for expected error
cases.  All other exit statuses imply that something beyond the imagination of
the programmer has occured.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fsq\-up\-host "(1), " fsq (7)
