.TH fsq\-add\-host 1 "2013-05-14" "Axial" "Axial System Commands Manual"
.SH NAME
fsq\-add\-host \- install a host to
.BR fsq (7)
host\-queues
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "fsq add\-host"
.BR "" "[ " flags " ]"
.IR host " " queue " [ " queue " [...]]]"
.br
.B "fsq add\-host"
.BR "" "[ " "\-h" "|" "\-\-help " "]"
.BR "" "[ " "\-v" "|" "\-\-verbose " "]"
.br
.BR "             " "[ " "\-f" | "\-\-force" " ]"
.BR "" "[ " "\-i "| "\-\-ignore\-exists" " ]"
.br
.BR "             " "[ " "\-o "owner| "\-\-owner" "=user|uid ]"
.br
.BR "             " "[ " "\-g "group| "\-\-group" "=group|gid ]"
.br
.BR "             " "[ " "\-m "mode| "\-\-mode" "=int ]"
.br
.IR "             host" " " queue " [ " queue " [...]]]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fsq\-add\-host (1)
program installs
.I host
to the
.IR "FSQ_HOSTS"
directory of one or more
.BR fsq (7)
.IR queue s
already installed to
.IR "FSQ_ROOT" .
.BR fsq\-add\-host (1)
will install the
.I "FSQ_HOSTS"
directory to
.I queue
if it is not already installed.
Each installed
.I host
contains the directories
.IR "FSQ_TMP" ", " "FSQ_QUEUE" ", " "FSQ_DONE" ", and " "FSQ_FAIL" ,
used by the
.BR fsq (7) " " functions " scan" ", " enqueue ", " reenqueue " and " push
to scan, dispatch, and distribute work.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
.br
Help.  Print usage to stdout and exit 0.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
.br
Verbose.  Print additional diagnostic information to stderr.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
.br
Force.  Forcably remove and re-install
.I host
if it already exists in
.IR "FSQ_HOSTS" .
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-ignore\-exists
Ignore Exists.  If
.I host
exists, do not install and exit success. When multiple
.I queue
arguments are provided, do not install
.I host
to the
.I queue " FSQ_HOSTS"
directory and continue to next
.IR queue .
.TP
.BR \-o user", " \-\-owner=user
.br
Owner.  Install
.I host
and all files and sub\-directories with user\-owner
.IR user .
Accepts either user name or id; default:
.BR geteuid (2).
.TP
.BR \-g group", " \-\-group=group
.br
Group.  Install
.I host
and all files and sub\-directories with group\-owner
.IR group .
Accepts either group name or id; default:
.BR getegid (2).
.TP
.BR \-m mode", " \-\-mode=mode
.br
Mode.  Install
.I host
and all files and sub\-directories with mode
.IR mode ". " mode
is expected to be an octal file\-system mode; default:
.IR 02775 .
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The
.B fsq\-add\-host
program exits 0 for success, 100 for bad usage, and 111 for expected error
cases.  All other exit statuses imply that something beyond the imagination of
the programmer has occured.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fsq\-install "(1), " fsq\-rm\-host "(1), " fsq (7)
