.TH fsq 1 "2012-06-12" "Axial" "Axial System Commands Manual"
.SH NAME
fsq \- the file-system queue program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fsq
.BR "" "[ " flags " ]"
.IR command " [ " args " [...]]"
.br
.B fsq
.BR "" "[ " \-h | \-\-help " ]"
.BR "" "[ " \-l | \-\-list " ]"
.BR "" "[ " \-c charset| \-\-charset \=charset "" " ]"
.br
.BR "    " "[ " \-e exec_dir| \-\-exec\-dir \=path "" " ]"
.BR "" "[ " \-r root_dir| \-\-root\-dir \=path "" " ]"
.br
.BR "    " "[ " \-q queue_dir| \-\-queue\-dir \=name "" " ]"
.BR "" "[ " \-t tmp_dir| \-\-tmp\-dir \=name "" " ]"
.br
.BR "    " "[ " \-d done_dir| \-\-done\-dir \=name "" " ]"
.BR "" "[ " \-D down_file| \-\-down\-file \=name "" " ]"
.br
.BR "    " "[ " \-T trigger_fifo| \-\-trigger\-fifo \=name "" " ]"
.IR command " [ " args " [..]]]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR fsq (1)
is an interface for the file-system based queue-processing standard
.BR fsq (7).
.BR fsq (1)
provides a variety of commands for enqueueing work, dispatching work and
introspecting, auditing and repairing enqueued, failed, and finished work.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
.br
Print an extended usage to stdout and exit with exit status
.IR 0 .
Should
.BR fsq (1)
fail due to a bad usage, a terse usage will be printed to stderr, and
.BR fsq (1)
will exit with exit status
.IR 100 .
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
.br
Print a list of the available
.I commands
for use with
.BR fsq (1)
to stdout and exit with exit status
.IR 0 .
Should a
.I command
be passed to
.BR fsq (1)
following the list option,
.BR fsq (1)
will not attmempt to execute the command prior to exiting.
.TP
.BR \-c " charset, " \-\-charset \=charset
.br
Set the
.I charset
used to decode/encode string arguments to and from unicode.  If
.I charset
is not passed,
.BR fsq (1)
attempts to use
.BR locale (7)
to derive the
.I charset
of the calling terminal.  Users may also set the
.I charset
via the
.I FSQ_CHARSET
.BR environ (7)
variable.
.sp
default:
.B utf8
.TP
.BR \-e " exec_dir, " \-\-exec\-dir \=path
.br
Sets the
.I path
to wherever the core
.BR fsq (1)
commands live.
Users may also set
.I exec_dir
via the
.I FSQ_EXEC_DIR
.BR environ (7)
variable.
.sp
default:
.B ../libexec/fsq
.TP
.BR \-r " root_dir, " \-\-root\-dir \=path
.br
Sets the
.I path
to wherever the
.BR fsq (7)
queues live. Users may also set
.I root_dir
via the
.I FSQ_ROOT
.BR environ (7)
variable.  Setting
.I FSQ_ROOT
in
.BR environ (7)
will cause all uses of the
.BR fsq (7)
library to use
.IR FSQ_ROOT .
.sp
default:
.B /var/fsq
.TP
.BR \-q " queue_dir, " \-\-queue\-dir \=name
.br
Sets the
.I name
of the
.I FSQ_QUEUE
subdirectory of a queue.
.I queue_dir
may not contain `/' or be `.' or `..'. Users may also set
.I queue_dir
via the
.I FSQ_QUEUE
.BR environ (7)
variable.
.sp
default:
.B queue
.TP
.BR \-t " tmp_dir, " \-\-tmp\-dir \=name
.br
Sets the
.I name
of the
.I FSQ_TMP
subdirectory of a queue.
.I tmp_dir
may not contain `/' or be `.' or `..'. Users may also set
.I tmp_dir
via the
.I FSQ_QUEUE
.BR environ (7)
variable.
.sp
default:
.B tmp
.TP
.BR \-d " done_dir, " \-\-done\-dir \=name
.br
Sets the
.I name
of the
.I FSQ_DONE
subdirectory of a queue.
.I done_dir
may not contain `/' or be `.' or `..'. Users may also set
.I done_dir
via the
.I FSQ_DONE
.BR environ (7)
variable.
.sp
default:
.B done
.TP
.BR \-D " down_file, " \-\-down\-file \=name
.br
Sets the
.I name
of the
.I FSQ_DOWN
file of a queue.
.I down_file
may not contain `/' or be `.' or `..'. Users may also set
.I down_file
via the
.I FSQ_DOWN
.BR environ (7)
variable.
.sp
default:
.B down
.TP
.BR \-T " trigger_fifo, " \-\-trigger\-fifo \=name
.br
Sets the
.I name
of the
.I FSQ_TRIGGER
.BR fifo (7)
of a queue.
.I trigger_fifo
may not contain `/' or be `.' or `..'. Users may also set
.I trigger_fifo
via the
.I FSQ_TRIGGER
.BR environ (7)
variable.
.sp
default:
.B trigger\-s
.SH "FSQ COMMANDS"
.TP
.BR fsq\-down (1)
.br
Mark a queue down to prevent scanning.
.TP
.BR fsq\-enqueue (1)
.br
Enqueue a work item to be processed at scan\-time.
.TP
.BR fsq\-scan (1)
.br
Scan an
.BR fsq (7)
queue and execute a program for each work item.
.TP
.BR fsq\-up (1)
.br
Mark a queue up to enable scanning.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.BR fsq (1)
makes use of all
.BR environ (7)
variables described by
.BR fsq (7).
In all cases where
.BR fsq (1)
provides an
.BR environ (7)
variable, and an
.I option
.BR fsq (1)
will prefer the
.IR option .
In addition to the normal
.BR fsq (7)
variables,
.BR fsq (1)
makes use of the following variables:
.TP
.I FSQ_EXEC_DIR
.br
Sets the
.I path
to wherever the core
.BR fsq (1)
commands live.  Is overridden by the
.I option
.BR \-e " or the option " \-\-exec\-dir .
.sp
default:
.B ../libexec/fsq/

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fsq\-down "(1), " fsq\-enqueue "(1), " fsq\-scan "(1), " fsq\-up "(1), " environ "(7), " fifo "(7), " fsq "(7)"
